"PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS OF SUPERVISED ML TECHNIQUE FOR NETWORK TRAFFIC CLASSIFICATION IN SDN"

#About--->
  This is final year thesis paper project code.Here three classification machine learning algorithm Decision Tree,Support Vector Machine(SVM) and Random Forest are used.In this project those three classification algorithm is used to find out the best algorithm in Network Traffic Classification IN SDN.

#Abstract--->
  With the increasing number of applications now a day’s traffic classification or traffic characterization is important for wired, wireless Network and IoT. In recent year SDN is growing with some new approach to solve problems in traditional network. Moreover, ML is widely using to fix problem of traffic classification. This research main goal is to classify the network traffic flow with highest accuracy. In this study three ML algorithm were used to interpret the most appropriate algorithm for network traffic classification comparing accuracy, score, and computation time. For performance measures the dataset used that have different types of protocol as output variable and statistical feature like duration, packet inter arrival time, packet length, packet direction used as input variable. It has been found that the best accuracy (99.78%), recall (97%), precision (99%), and f1 score (98%) for Random Forest classifier with comparison of other two algorithms. Precision, Recall, f1-score, accuracy score, confusion matrix, model training time, and prediction time are used to evaluate the machine learning classification algorithm’s performance by using 120 features out of 249. This research used three supervised algorithms to measure their performance in network traffic classification.
